Clarify how ECK calculates license usage (#5105)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/license/manage-your-license-in-eck.md

## Get usage data [k8s-get-usage-data]

ECK automatically tracks the memory capacity of all managed {{stack}} deployments and reports this information as Enterprise Resource Units (ERUs). This data is stored in a ConfigMap called `elastic-licensing` in the operator's namespace and is updated every **2 minutes**.

### What counts towards usage

ECK monitors the following managed resource types:

* {{es}}
* {{kib}}
* APM Server
* Enterprise Search

> * Logstash (counted for informational purposes only; billable consumption depends on your license terms on a per-customer basis, refer to the [Self Managed Subscription Agreement](https://www.elastic.co/agreements/global/self-managed))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* {{apm-server}}
* Enterprise Search
* {{ls}} (counted for informational purposes only; billable consumption depends on your license terms on a per-customer basis, refer to the [Self Managed Subscription Agreement](https://www.elastic.co/agreements/global/self-managed))
```

For each resource, ECK determines the memory capacity per node and multiplies it by the number of replicas to calculate the total memory for that resource type. The sum across all resource types is the **total managed memory**.

Other resource types managed by ECK (such as {{agent}}, {{beats}}, or Elastic Maps Server) are **not** counted towards usage.

### How memory is determined

ECK does not measure actual runtime memory consumption. Instead, it reads the **configured memory capacity** from the resource specifications. For each managed resource, ECK uses the following priority order:

1. **Container memory limit** — If a `resources.limits.memory` value is set on the application container in the pod template, that value is used.
2. **Application-specific environment variable** — If no container memory limit is set, ECK falls back to application-specific environment variables where applicable:
   * {{es}}: the `-Xmx` value from `ES_JAVA_OPTS`, doubled to account for non-heap memory
   * {{kib}}: the `--max-old-space-size` value from `NODE_OPTIONS`
   * Enterprise Search: the `-Xmx` value from `JAVA_OPTS`, doubled to account for non-heap memory

>    * Logstash: the `-Xmx` value from `LS_JAVA_OPTS`, doubled to account for non-heap memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * {{ls}}: the `-Xmx` value from `LS_JAVA_OPTS`, doubled to account for non-heap memory
```
